Add Cloud Pro SSO documentation (#1213)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/getting-started/single-sign-on.md

---

> title: "Single sign-on (SSO)"

Reviewer: @llewellyn-sl @justinegeffen - One question: do we think this is the right place for the page to live? Thinking out loud, would "Get started" section make more sense?

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think that's a better place for this content actually. I'm happy for it to live there.

The setup link expires after five days. If the link expires before your IdP administrator completes setup, refresh the URL from the SSO settings page.

## Configure Microsoft Entra ID

Use the Auth0 self-service SSO wizard to connect Microsoft Entra ID to Seqera. Before you start, configure an Entra application for Seqera SSO and assign access to the users or groups that should be able to sign in.

When you select Microsoft Entra ID in the Auth0 wizard, provide:

- **Domain**: The email domain claimed in Seqera.
- **Client ID**: The application client ID from the Entra app registration.
- **Client secret**: A client secret for the Entra app.
- **Claims mapping**: The mapping between Entra user attributes and the user profile attributes returned to Seqera.

After you enter the Entra configuration, run the test connection in Auth0. The test authenticates with Microsoft and confirms that Auth0 can receive the expected user profile. If your browser is already signed in to Microsoft as another user, the test may use that Microsoft session; this does not change the Seqera organization owner who is configuring SSO.

> Return to Seqera after the Auth0 test succeeds and enable SSO enforcement from the SSO settings page.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we have to document each provider: we should rely on the documentation Auth0 provides during the wizard. I would remove that part and probably list the "major" providers auth0 supports

## Sign-in behavior

When an organization has active SSO:

- The sign-in flow starts with an email-first step.
- Users whose email domain matches an active SSO connection are redirected to their corporate IdP.
- Users whose email domain does not match an SSO connection continue with the standard Seqera login options.
- Users who previously signed in with a social provider and have a matching SSO domain are redirected to the corporate IdP instead.

## User provisioning and account linking

When a user signs in through an active SSO connection for the first time:

- New users are automatically added to the organization as members.

> - Existing Seqera accounts with the same email are linked to the SSO identity instead of creating a duplicate user.

Reviewer 3: Here is important to highlight that preexisting users after sso activation would go through account linking while users created in the platform AFTER sso activation will not go through the linking steps. @swingingsimian what do you think?

Reviewer 4: This isn't quite true. After SSO activation all users will be linked automatically in auth0, but the account link prompt will still appear. 

Existing users with new logins methods will be prompted to link accounts in Auth0 (supports non-SSO case). If a user is identified as having an email matching an SSO connection domain, they will automatically have their Auth0 accounts linked after login, regardless of what they chose earlier.

The upshot is that regardless of how they attempt to login (email, github, google), they will be routed through SSO and have accounts linked.

Reviewer 2: @swingingsimian, could you take a stab at updating the content inline? Thank you!

Reviewer 4: ```
Existing Auth0 accounts with the same email are linked to the SSO identity instead of creating a duplicate user.
```

I just made the Seqera -> Auth0 clarification. The user on the platform side is always the same. 

I'm not sure we need to go into the nitty gritty here tbh, and we are about to change how the account linking works, so this may quickly become out of date.

---
title: "Single sign-on (SSO)"
description: "Configure single sign-on for a Seqera Platform Cloud organization."
date created: "2026-03-10"
last updated: "2026-05-05"
tags: [sso, authentication, organization-settings, cloud-pro]
---

Single sign-on (SSO) lets a Seqera Platform Cloud organization use its corporate identity provider (IdP) for authentication. After SSO is enabled, users with a matching email domain are routed to the organization's IdP when they sign in.

> 

Reviewer 4: It might be worth adding that github and google logins will still be permitted, given an email matching the claimed SSO domain. These logins will be redirected through the IdP to enforce IdP based authentication. The above para does cover this, but it's quite ambiguous.

Maybe instead of this:

'users with a matching email domain are routed to the organization's IdP when they sign in.'

This?

'users logging with a matching email domain (including social logins) are routed to the organization's IdP when they sign in.'

actually, covered below..

## Identity provider setup

The Auth0 self-service SSO wizard provides provider-specific instructions. Follow the wizard for the exact values and configuration steps required by your IdP.

For the current list of supported providers, see [Auth0 Self-Service Enterprise Configuration](https://auth0.com/docs/authenticate/enterprise-connections/self-service-enterprise-config).

Configure user or group access in your IdP before you run the connection test in Auth0.

## Sign-in behavior

When an organization has active SSO:

- The sign-in flow starts with an email-first step.
- Users whose email domain matches an active SSO connection are redirected to their corporate IdP.
- Users whose email domain does not match an SSO connection continue with the standard Seqera login options.
- Users who previously signed in with a social provider and have a matching SSO domain are redirected to the corporate IdP instead.

## User provisioning and account linking

When a user signs in through an active SSO connection for the first time:

> - Existing Seqera accounts with the same email are linked to the SSO identity instead of creating a duplicate user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Existing Auth0 accounts with the same email are linked to the SSO identity instead of creating a duplicate user.
```

- Users who first access Seqera after SSO is active are created through the SSO sign-in flow and automatically added to the organization as members.
- Existing organization memberships, workspace roles, ownership, and run history are preserved for linked accounts.
- Name and profile fields are populated from the IdP when those attributes are available.

Newly provisioned users receive the lowest organization-level role by default. Organization owners can then promote those users or grant workspace-level access as needed.

SSO applies only to users with the claimed email domain. External users who need workspace access must be added to the organization's IdP as guest or external accounts, provisioned as organization members through SSO, and granted the appropriate workspace access. Active SSO blocks new workspace collaborator assignments.

## Manage an existing connection

Organization owners can manage the SSO connection from **Organization settings**:

- Disable SSO enforcement without deleting the existing configuration.
- Re-enable a previously disabled connection if no other organization has activated the same domain.

> - Generate a management link for IdP-side changes, such as certificate rotation or provider configuration updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Generate an Auth0 connection management link for active connections. Enabling IdP configuration changes such as credential rotation or other provider updates.
```

> - Generate a management link for IdP-side changes, such as certificate rotation or provider configuration updates.

Reviewer 4: Important to note, this can be done on an active connection, to enable things like rotation of credentials, without having to temproarily disable the connection

Reviewer 4: `Generate an Auth0 connection management link for active connections. Enabling IdP configuration changes such as credential rotation or other provider updates`

- Delete the connection and release the claimed domain.

:::note
You can't change the claimed domain through the edit flow. To move SSO to a different domain, delete the existing connection and create a new one.
:::

## Audit log coverage

SSO activity is recorded in the audit log for compliance and troubleshooting. Audit coverage includes:

- SSO configuration changes such as create, enable, disable, and delete
- Identity-linking updates for existing users

## Troubleshooting

> ### The setup link isn't generated

Reviewer 4: This part shouldn't really happen. There are 2 checkpoint for collaborators/domain claimed/email mismatch. 

1 - Creation i.e. when the domain is claimed.

2 - Enabling connection in platform

This is kind of covered by the next para, if you consider 'Setup' to cover both of those cases,

Setup link should always be generated if those check pass. I'd merge these paras to cover both Connection creation/enabling and drop the reference to link creation as I think that's a bit confusing.

Reviewer 4: ```
## Troubleshooting

### Setup Issues

These issues can occur either when you first claim a domain to create an SSO connection, or later when the connection is enabled:

 - Organization contains members with email addresses outside the claimed domain.  Remove them or migrate them to the claimed domain.

 - Organization has existing workspace collaborators. If external users need continued access, add them to your IdP as guest or external accounts so they can sign in through SSO and be provisioned as organization members.

 -  The claimed domain is rejected or becomes unclaimable. The domain may already be claimed by another organization — either at the time you attempt to claim it, or because another organization has since enabled a connection with the same domain claim. Contact Seqera support.

### Users are not redirected to the corporate IdP

...

```
